The Grading Reference for the Narrative Visualization Project
#789
Narrative Visualization Project
Dear Students,

The grading reference for the narrative visualization project in included at the end of this post.

This is a conclusive list of points, and the graders will only pay attention to these items. No extra-credit for elegance, having more scenes than enough, etc. will be applied to your grade. This list will not be modified.

The points here add up to 36.

The itemized questions are framed as clearly as possible.

To avoid any any confusion, we will not clarify any of the items further neither on Campuswire nor during office hours. While answering a certain question may assure a group of students, it may confuseworry many other students. Furthermore, we cannot keep the whole class in suspense and constantly checking for new guidelines here and there. To be fair to all students, we won't provide any new information.
If you have any doubts on whether your answer satisfies a particular item, then you should modify your answer until you have no further doubts about receiving the point. Before grading, we cannot confirm whether your answer satisfies a certain item.
The grading will only consider what you delivered, and not what you intended.

If your project is a martini glass but you don't mention it clearly in your essay, then you will lose points no matter how basic or visible it may seem. Graders will only look for the answers in the relevant parts; having answers out of their appropriate places will not count during grading.
Be precise, and answer all the questions clearly and to-the-point. Place yourself in the shoes of the grader. If locating the answer to a particular item doesn't seem easy, or if the answer is buried under too much irrelevant information, then you will likely lose the points for that item. Help the graders give you the points you deserve, and make their life easier by pointing them to what they'll be looking for.
While this is not necessary, it may be a good idea to (a) keep the grading reference structure in mind when writing your essays, and (b) append the following checklist with pointers to each specific item's answer to the end of your essay. This is mainly to help the grader find your specific answers if they had difficulty looking them up.

Sincerely, Ehsan

The Grading Reference
A. What is the URL of your narrative visualization
[1 point] Does the URL connect to a functioning web page
B. Upload a PDF file essay describing your narrative visualization as required by the assignment instructions.
[5 points] Does the essay state what messaging was intended by the narrative visualization
C. Narrative Structure
[2 points] Does the essay indicate which structure the narrative visualization was designed to follow (martini glass, interactive slide show or drop-down story)

[3 points] Does the narrative visualization follow that structure

D. Visual Structure
[2 points] Does the essay indicate what visual structure is used for each scene

[1 point] Does the essay indicate how the visual structure ensures the viewer can understand the data

[1 point] Does the essay indicate how highlighting is used to get the viewer to focus on the important parts of the data in each scene

[1 point] Does the essay indicate how the visual structure helps the viewer transition to other scenes, to understand how the data connects to the data in other scenes

E. Scenes and Visual Ordering
[2 points] Does the essay identify the scenes of the narrative visualization

[1 point] Does the essay discuss ordering (e.g. the order of elements in a chart or the ordering of scenes)

[2 point] Do the charts used as scenes effectively present the data

F. Annotations
[2 points] Does the essay discuss annotations

[1 point] Does the essay discuss a template for the annotations

[2 points] Are the annotations in the narrative visualization effective and consistent

G. Parameters and States
[1 point] Does the essay identify the parameters of the narrative visualization

[1 point] Does the essay identify the states of the narrative visualization

[1 point] Does the essay indicate how are the parameters are used to define the state and each scene

[1 point] Does the narrative visualization use parameters to control its state

[1 point] Does the narrative visualization use parameters to control each scene

H. Triggers
[2 points] Does the essay indicate the triggers that connect user actions to changes of state in the narrative visualization

[1 point] Does the essay indicate what affordances are provided to the user to communicate to them what options are available to them in the narrative visualization

[1 point] Does the narrative visualization implement and respond to user events properly

[1 point] Does the narrative visualization make any effort at all to communicate what options are available to the user